An ICO stands for Intial Coin Offering. This is a way to raise funding using cryptocurrencies. This type of fundingis often used with projects that have not fully developed their idea/product/service yet. Investors invest in these in hopes that they recieve good returns as early supporters of that start-up, they expect/hope the company will become successfull so that the underlying tokens increase in value. One key difference between ICOs and traditional IPOs (initial public offering) is that investing in an ICO won't result in you having ownership in that company, which is one of the main attarctions for the entrepeneurs as they keep for control. To do an ICO one needs to:
* write a whitepaper outlining your idea/platform
* raise funding in crowdsales
* list token on exchange.

However, there is little to no regulation and anyone could launch on ICO, which means anyone could start one leading to high potential for fraud and misleadings. One example of such an ICO is SwissCoin. They promised to develop a global system of instant and interest-free payments and reassured investors by saying they partnered with big banks. They were able to raise funds without publishing a white paper or giving personal information about the developers, and embezzled those funds. 

Another failed ICO is BitConnect, who offered lending and exchange services. BitConnect was dubbed a ponzi scheme, offering a high-yield investment program. However, BitConnect also have no whitepaper.

I attempt to analyse Bitrust's white paper, another failed ICO. They failed in May 2018 and marketed themselves as: "a decentralized, easy to use, peer-2-peer cryptocurrency insurance platform based on Ethereum blockchain leveraging smart-contract technology. BITRUST platform will help protect your cryptocurrency value from sudden market drops" this sentence alone raises many red flags. Given the volatility of the crypto market, this will be a very difficult model to build and price, being able to offer insurance to this seems a little out of reach. Another red flag is that the development of a minimum viable product was only due after the token sale on the 30.09.2018 (according to the timeline), which could have dicouraged investors from purchasing the tokens. 
"To promote the use of BITRUST tokens within our platform and increase the value of our tokens, we will charge a fee of only 0.1% against the total sum of theinsurance contract in case where the entire deal is conducted in BTFs. This is a discount of 80% of our regular fee, which will serve as a strong incentive to use BTF tokens for the service BITRUST provides to the blockchain community"
- this means that the only use of the token is to buy Bitrust's insurance. 

"The foundation of BITRUST cryptocurrency insurance platform is a decentralised exchange and transaction clearing system which eliminates possible fraud and single-point-of-failure risks and prevents the system from external regulation" - they would not be able to control external regulation, which sounds very dodgy.

Unfortunatly I am not very experienced with white papers, but reading Bitrust's paper did not give me any trust in them. It all sounds like red flags to me. 
